# Iot Smart Air Purifier
This project is about an IoT based smart air purifier system which controls air purifier and extended interfaces like ceiling fan and room windows to achieve maximum air purification. Additionally a methane sensing system is also present which detects gas leaks and alerts the user.
ATmega 328 is a microchip found in Arduino uno microprocessor. We connect both the methane gas sensor as well as the dust sensor to the ATmega. The wifi module ESP8266 is also interfaced with the micro controller. A motor driver IC L293D is connected to the micro controller. A buzzer and a relay is also connected. The sensors sense the amount of dust and natural gas/methane in the air and deliver the values to the microcontroller. According to these values, the micro controller drives the motor driving IC to operate the two motors governing the action of the window. If the gas sensor produces a high output, then the microcontroller sends a signal to the buzzer which activates it, thus producing an alarming sound. According to the sensor values, the relay is also energised in order to control both the ceiling fan and the purifier fan. All information regarding the sensor values and status of the purifier is shared to a mobile browser which can be remotely operated with the help of a wifi module.
There are only 2 arduino programs used in the project. First program dictates the purification process and the functioning of the extended interfaces (ceiling fan,
window automation and methane sensing unit). The second program establishes the connection between the purification system and the internet. First program is given in the main file. Second program is given in the node MCU file.
